DOC add contribution guidelines (#49)
owkin/PyDESeq2: docs/source/usage/contributing.rst

Contributing
------------

PyDESeq2 is a living project and any contributions are welcome!
The project is hosted on `Github <https://github.com/owkin/PyDESeq2>`_.

You can help us by adding a star to `pydeseq` repository on github or talk about
our repository on the social media or on your blog or article.

We also kindly ask you to follow `Python code of conduct <https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/>`_.

If you find any bugs in the code report them to the
`issue tracker <https://github.com/owkin/PyDESeq2/issues>`_.

How can I contribute?
=====================
- :ref:`bug`
- :ref:`code_contrib`
- :ref:`doc_contrib`
- :ref:`answers`

.. _bug:

> Submit a bug or ask for a new feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submitting a bug or asking for a new feature
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> First check if the issue which you are facing or a feature you would like to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, check if the issue which you are facing or the feature you would like to
```

have added is not already described in the
`issue tracker <https://github.com/owkin/PyDESeq2/issues>`_.
If this is the case you can give a thumb up to that
issue / feature. If there are multiple thumbs ups to a given issue it makes us
prioritize it higher. You can also add a comment if you think there is something
you would like to add to what have been said.

If the issue / feature is not yet described make sure to give precise details on
how you reached that issue (if possible giving code snippets) or precisely
describe how the new feature should function. If it's an issue you should also

> mention which version of `pydeseq2` you are using. If you don't know which
> version you are using you can check it by running the following python code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mention which version of `pydeseq2` you are using. You can check this by running the following python code:
```

.. code-block:: python

    import pydeseq2
    pydeseq2.__version__

.. _code_contrib:

> Contribute with the code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contributing to the code
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Thanks for willing to help us out with the `pydeseq2` development.

> If you are contributing to the existing issue add in the comment of that issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are contributing to an existing issue, add in the comment of that issue
```

that you plan to contribute on it to avoid duplicate work. Once you start
working on your pull request, link it to the issue by adding `#issue_number`

> 1. To contribute you will first need to fork the `Github <https://github.com/owkin/PyDESeq2>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To contribute, you will first need to fork the `Github <https://github.com/owkin/PyDESeq2>`_
```

repository using the fork button in github. This will create a copy of
`pydeseq2` on your github account (you must be logged in to github).

1. clone the `pydeseq2` version from your account:

.. code-block:: python

    git clone git@github.com:<your-github-username>/pydeseq2.git
    cd pydeseq2

We recommend using conda environment, run:

.. code-block:: bash

    conda env create -n pydeseq2-dev python=3.8
    conda activate pydeseq2-dev

and then install `pydeseq2` in the development mode. This will also install all
the required dependencies.

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install -e ."[dev]"

> The pre-commit tool will automatically run `black` and `isort`, and check `flake8`

Reviewer: Don't you also need to run `pre-commit install` before? (Maybe there's a way to automate this?)

compatibility

3. Add the upstream remote:

.. code-block:: bash

    git remote add upstream git@github.com:owkin/pydeseq2.git

4. Ensure that the origin and upstream are configured correctly by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    git remote -v

you should see someting like this:

.. code-block:: bash

    origin  git@github.com:<your-github-username>/pydeseq2.git (fetch)
    origin  git@github.com:<your-github-username>/pydeseq2.git (push)
    upstream        git@github.com:owkin/pydeseq2.git (fetch)
    upstream        git@github.com:owkin/pydeseq2.git (push)

You are now all set and ready to start on your pull request (PR).

5. Synchronize your branch with the upstream repository:

.. code-block:: bash

    git checkout main
    git fetch upstream
    git merge upstream/main --rebase

6. Create a new branch where you will add your contributions:

.. code-block:: bash

    git checkout -b my_new_branch

> You can now make the changes commiting to your new branch. Each time you commit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now make the changes commiting to your new branch. Each time you commit,
```

the pre-commit will check for style in your code.

7. Once you are ready to submit your PR, first make sure that all the changes
   you have made are pushed into your github account:

.. code-block:: bash

    git push -u origin my_feature

8. Now create a pull request from your fork by following those

>    [guidelines](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork)

Reviewer: The link doesn't display on RTD. I think it should be something like this:

```suggestion
   `guidelines <https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork>`_.
```

   Ensure that the description of your PR is sufficient to understand what you
   are doing in the code.
   The core developers of `pydeseq2` will receive a message that your PR is
   ready for reviews.

9. You will need to respond to all the comments before your PR can be merged.
   Thanks for your contribution.

.. _doc_contrib:

> Improve the documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Improving the documentation
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you wish to contribute to the documentation you need to follow the same

> guidelines as for the code PR (:ref:`code_contrib`) and additionaly install the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
guidelines as for the code PR (:ref:`code_contrib`) and additionally install the
```

dependencies required for building the documentation.

> Once you have your environment for development ready navigate to docs directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have your environment for development ready, navigate to docs directory
```
